content/Concepts/aligning equations in Latex.md, before:

---
parent:
  - "[[latex|latex]]"
tags:
  - tools/latex
created: 2024-10-13
modified: 2024-10-13
publish: true
---
The `align` environment is one of the most commonly used commands to align multiple equations in LaTeX. It allows for the alignment of equations at the specified alignment points, typically the equal signs (`=`). The primary difference between `align` and `align*` is that with the `*` version, the equations are not numbered.

**Example**:
```latex
\begin{align*}
2x - 5y &=  8 \\
3x + 9y &=  -12
\end{align*}
```
will produces
$$
\begin{align*} 
2x - 5y &=  8 \\ 
3x + 9y &=  -12
\end{align*}
$$
## `align` Vs `aligned`
The `align` environment is a display math environment, meaning it works independently to display aligned equations across multiple lines, typically used when you want to align equations outside the context of other math environments.

On the other hand, the `aligned` environment does not initiate math mode on its own. Therefore, it must be used within another math environment, such as another `align`, `equation` or `gather`, and it only takes up the width of its content. This makes it suitable for aligning equations that are part of a larger expression. [^1]

Example usage of aligned:
```latex
\begin{equation}
\begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = \text{solution of }
\boxed{
  \begin{aligned}
  2x - 5y &= 5 \\
  x + y &= 13
  \end{aligned}
}
\end{equation}
```
$$
\begin{equation}
\begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = \text{solution of }
\boxed{
  \begin{aligned}
  2x - 5y &= 5 \\
  x + y &= 13
  \end{aligned}
}
\end{equation}
$$


## Long Equation
For equations longer than a line, we can use `multiline` [^2]. For example:
```latex
\begin{multline*}
f(x) = \frac{A}{2} + \frac{2A \cos{(t\omega)}}{\pi} - \frac{2A \cos{(3t\omega)}}{3\pi} + \frac{2A \cos{(5t\omega)}}{5\pi} - \frac{2A \cos{(7t\omega)}}{7\pi}\\
+ \frac{2A \cos{(9t\omega)}}{9\pi} - \frac{2A \cos{(11t\omega)}}{11\pi} + \frac{2A \cos{(13t\omega)}}{13\pi} + \dots
\end{multline*}
```
produces
$$
\begin{multline*}
f(x) = \frac{A}{2} + \frac{2A \cos{(t\omega)}}{\pi} - \frac{2A \cos{(3t\omega)}}{3\pi} + \frac{2A \cos{(5t\omega)}}{5\pi} - \frac{2A \cos{(7t\omega)}}{7\pi}\\
+ \frac{2A \cos{(9t\omega)}}{9\pi} - \frac{2A \cos{(11t\omega)}}{11\pi} + \frac{2A \cos{(13t\omega)}}{13\pi} + \dots
\end{multline*}
$$


## Centered Equations
If we just need to display consecutive equations without alignment, we can use `gather`, which will center the equations [^2]. For example:
```latex
\begin{gather*}
2x - 5y =  8 \\
3x^2 + 9y =  3a + c
\end{gather*}
```
produces
$$
\begin{gather*} 
2x - 5y =  8 \\ 
3x^2 + 9y =  3a + c
\end{gather*}
$$

[^1]: [equations - Which one should I use: \\begin{align} or \\begin{aligned}? - TeX - LaTeX Stack Exchange](https://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/8788/which-one-should-i-use-beginalign-or-beginaligned)
[^2]: [Aligning equations with amsmath - Overleaf, Online LaTeX Editor](https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Aligning_equations_with_amsmath)

Commit message:

[PUBLISHER] Merge #42
* PUSH NOTE : clustering illusion.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : points on grid.png

* PUSH NOTE : Parseval’s Theorem.md

* PUSH NOTE : enthymemes.md

* PUSH NOTE : identity relation.md

* PUSH NOTE : the identity predicate.md

* PUSH NOTE : relation.md

* PUSH NOTE : philosophy of science and metascience.md

* PUSH NOTE : how to support people who have depression.md

* PUSH NOTE : hazard pointer.md

* PUSH NOTE : frontal lobe.md

* PUSH NOTE : equivalence relation.md

* PUSH NOTE : desirable difficulty.md

* PUSH NOTE : binary relation.md

* PUSH NOTE : biases in statistics.md

* PUSH NOTE : aligning equations in Latex.md

* PUSH NOTE : Texas sharpshooter fallacy.md

* PUSH NOTE : L'Hospital's rule.md

* PUSH NOTE : Fourier series.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : Fourier approximation.png

* PUSH NOTE : CUDA memory and cache architecture.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/adding two sine waves of the same frequency generates another sine wave of that frequency.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/predicate (set theory).md

content/Concepts/aligning equations in Latex.md, after:

---
parent:
  - "[[latex|latex]]"
tags:
  - tools/latex
created: 2024-10-13
modified: 2024-10-13
publish: true
aliases:
  - equations in Latex
---
The `align` environment is one of the most commonly used commands to align multiple equations in LaTeX. It allows for the alignment of equations at the specified alignment point> [!theorem]
> Contentss, typically the equal signs (`=`). The primary difference between `align` and `align*` is that with the `*` version, the equations are not numbered.

**Example**:
```latex
\begin{align*}
2x - 5y &=  8 \\
3x + 9y &=  -12
\end{align*}
```
will produces
$$
\begin{align*} 
2x - 5y &=  8 \\ 
3x + 9y &=  -12
\end{align*}
$$
## `align` Vs `aligned`
The `align` environment is a display math environment, meaning it works independently to display aligned equations across multiple lines, typically used when you want to align equations outside the context of other math environments.

On the other hand, the `aligned` environment does not initiate math mode on its own. Therefore, it must be used within another math environment, such as another `align`, `equation` or `gather`, and it only takes up the width of its content. This makes it suitable for aligning equations that are part of a larger expression. [^1]

Example usage of aligned:
```latex
\begin{equation}
\begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = \text{solution of }
\boxed{
  \begin{aligned}
  2x - 5y &= 5 \\
  x + y &= 13
  \end{aligned}
}
\end{equation}
```
$$
\begin{equation}
\begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = \text{solution of }
\boxed{
  \begin{aligned}
  2x - 5y &= 5 \\
  x + y &= 13
  \end{aligned}
}
\end{equation}
$$


## Long Equation
For equations longer than a line, we can use `multiline` [^2]. For example:
```latex
\begin{multline*}
f(x) = \frac{A}{2} + \frac{2A \cos{(t\omega)}}{\pi} - \frac{2A \cos{(3t\omega)}}{3\pi} + \frac{2A \cos{(5t\omega)}}{5\pi} - \frac{2A \cos{(7t\omega)}}{7\pi}\\
+ \frac{2A \cos{(9t\omega)}}{9\pi} - \frac{2A \cos{(11t\omega)}}{11\pi} + \frac{2A \cos{(13t\omega)}}{13\pi} + \dots
\end{multline*}
```
produces
$$
\begin{multline*}
f(x) = \frac{A}{2} + \frac{2A \cos{(t\omega)}}{\pi} - \frac{2A \cos{(3t\omega)}}{3\pi} + \frac{2A \cos{(5t\omega)}}{5\pi} - \frac{2A \cos{(7t\omega)}}{7\pi}\\
+ \frac{2A \cos{(9t\omega)}}{9\pi} - \frac{2A \cos{(11t\omega)}}{11\pi} + \frac{2A \cos{(13t\omega)}}{13\pi} + \dots
\end{multline*}
$$


## Centered Equations
If we just need to display consecutive equations without alignment, we can use `gather`, which will center the equations [^2]. For example:
```latex
\begin{gather*}
2x - 5y =  8 \\
3x^2 + 9y =  3a + c
\end{gather*}
```
produces
$$
\begin{gather*} 
2x - 5y =  8 \\ 
3x^2 + 9y =  3a + c
\end{gather*}
$$

[^1]: [equations - Which one should I use: \\begin{align} or \\begin{aligned}? - TeX - LaTeX Stack Exchange](https://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/8788/which-one-should-i-use-beginalign-or-beginaligned)
[^2]: [Aligning equations with amsmath - Overleaf, Online LaTeX Editor](https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Aligning_equations_with_amsmath)
