content/Concepts/central limit theorem.md, before:

---
created: 2023-05-30
modified: 2024-09-15
parent:
  - "[[probability MOC|probability MOC]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - math/probability
  - math/theorem
---
The **central limit theorem** states that the sum of N [[iid|iid]] random variables $\sum_{1}^N X_{N}$ will look more and more like a [[./normal distribution|bell curve]] $N\left( \mu, \frac{\sigma^2}{n} \right)$ when $N \rightarrow \infty$ even if $X$s themselves are not normally distributed.

> [!theorem] Central Limit Theorem
> $$\lim_{N \rightarrow \infty}P(a < \frac{\sum_{1}^N X_{N} - N \cdot \mu}{\sigma \cdot \sqrt{ N }} < b) = \int_a^b \frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} e^{-x^2 / 2} d x$$
> under the assumptions that
> 1. Each $X_i$ is [[./independent and identically distributed random variables|iid]] (independent and from the same distribution)
> 2. The [[./variance|variance]] is finite $0 < Var[X_i] < \infty$ [^1]

As a result of the central limit theorem, we can [[./normal approximation|approximate discrete distributions as a normal distribution]].

## References
- [[But what is the Central Limit Theorem|But what is the Central Limit Theorem]]

[^1]: In certain continuous distributions, the variance can diverge into infinity

Commit message:

[PUBLISHER] Merge #59
* PUSH NOTE : visual explanation of convolution.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : diagonal slice discrete convolution.png

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : continuous convolution visualization diagonal.png

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : convolution Riemann sum.png

* PUSH NOTE : sum of random variables.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : convolution rectangle.png

* PUSH NOTE : independence.md

* PUSH NOTE : probability mass function.md

* PUSH NOTE : probability MOC.md

* PUSH NOTE : polynomial multiplication as convolution.md

* PUSH NOTE : numerical integration.md

* PUSH NOTE : mutually exclusive events.md

* PUSH NOTE : moment generating functions.md

* PUSH NOTE : logical conditional.md

* PUSH NOTE : law of large numbers.md

* PUSH NOTE : frontal lobe.md

* PUSH NOTE : desirable difficulty.md

* PUSH NOTE : convolution.md

* PUSH NOTE : conditional probability.md

* PUSH NOTE : complex frequency.md

* PUSH NOTE : central limit theorem.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : central limit theorem.webp

* PUSH NOTE : binomial distribution.md

* PUSH NOTE : Wald's equation.md

* PUSH NOTE : Poisson distribution.md

* PUSH NOTE : Myers–Briggs Type Indicator.md

* PUSH NOTE : Euler's formula.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/independent events.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/sum of random variable.md

content/Concepts/central limit theorem.md, after:

---
created: 2023-05-30
modified: 2024-11-07
parent:
  - "[[probability MOC|probability MOC]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - math/probability
  - math/theorem
---
The **central limit theorem** states that the sum of N [[iid|iid]] random variables $\sum_{1}^N X_{N}$ will look more and more like a [[./normal distribution|bell curve]] $N\left( \mu, \frac{\sigma^2}{n} \right)$ when $N \rightarrow \infty$ even if $X$s themselves are not normally distributed.

![[../assets/central limit theorem.webp|Demonstrating central limit theorem using N numbers of dice|400]]

> [!theorem] Central Limit Theorem
> $$\lim_{N \rightarrow \infty}P(a < \frac{\sum_{1}^N X_{N} - N \cdot \mu}{\sigma \cdot \sqrt{ N }} < b) = \int_a^b \frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} e^{-x^2 / 2} d x$$
> under the assumptions that
> 1. Each $X_i$ is [[./independent and identically distributed random variables|iid]] (independent and from the same distribution)
> 2. The [[./variance|variance]] is finite $0 < Var[X_i] < \infty$ [^1]

As a result of the central limit theorem, we can [[./normal approximation|approximate discrete distributions as a normal distribution]].

## Intuition
An intuitive explanation of the central limit theorem is that [[./sum of random variables|sum of random variables]] can be viewed as [[./convolution|a sequence of convolution operations]]. As [[convolution as smoothing|convolution smooths functions]], repeatedly applying convolutions eventually gives us the bell-curve shape.

![[../assets/convolution rectangle.png|convolution smooths functions|354]]

## Related
- [[./law of large numbers|law of large numbers]] - describes the behavior of sample mean for sum of iid random variables

## References
- [[But what is the Central Limit Theorem|But what is the Central Limit Theorem]]

[^1]: In certain continuous distributions, the variance can diverge into infinity
