content/Concepts/convolution.md, before:

---
created: 2024-08-23
modified: 2024-11-05
parent:
  - "[[functions|function]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - math/convolution
---
**Convolution** is a mathematical operation of combining two functions $f$ and $g$ and forming a third function $f * g$. It can be view as the amount of overlap of one function when it is shifted over another function.

> [!definition] Definition of Convolution
> For continuous functions, we have
> $$
> f(t) * g(t) = \int_{\tau = -\infty}^{\infty} f(\tau) g(t - \tau) \, d\tau 
> $$
> For discrete signals, we have convolution defined as
> $$
> (f * g)[n] := \sum_{i=-\infty}^\infty f[i] \cdot g[n - i]
> $$
## Visual Explanation
Discrete convolution is often visualized as flipping one of the input signals (we call it the kernel or filter) and using it as [[weighted average|weights]] to compute a [[moving average|moving average]] over another signal.
![[../assets/discrete_convolution_visualization.gif|400]]
  Similarly, continuous convolution can be visualized by the "sliding windows" process.
![[../assets/Convolution_of_box_signal_with_itself2.gif|Convolution_of_box_signal_with_itself2.gif]]

## Properties of Convolution
Convolution has several nice properties:
- $f * g = g * f$ ([[commutativity|commutativity]])
- $f * (g * h) = (f * g) * h$ ([[associativity|associativity]])
- $f * (g + h) = (f * g) + (f * h)$ ([[distributivity|distributivity]])
- $f(t) * \delta(t - T) = f(t - T)$ ([[./impulse convolution|impulse convolution]])
- If $y(t) = f(t) * g(t)$, then $f(t - T) * g(t) = f(t) * g(t - T) = y(t - T)$ (time shift property)
- If $f(t) * g(t) = y(t)$, $f(at) * g(at) = \left|\frac{1}{a}\right|\ y(at)$ ([[./time scaling property of convolution|time scaling property]])
 
## Convolution Theorem
> See: [[./convolution theorem|convolution theorem]]

When transforming time-domain signals to [[./time and frequency domain|frequency domain]], convolution operation becomes multiplication and vice-versa
- $\mathcal{L}\{ f * g \} = \mathcal{L}\{ f \} \mathcal{L}\{ g \}$ and $\mathcal{F}\{ f * g \} = \mathcal{F}\{ f \} \mathcal{L}\{ g \}$

## Applications
Convolutions has various applications. For example:
- [[./polynomial multiplication as convolution|multiplication of polynomials as convolution]]
- [[convolution of probability distributions|sum of probability distributions as convolution]]
- convolution can be used to express the output of a [[./linear time-invariant system|linear time-invariant system]] when [[./zero-input response and zero-state response|zero-state response]] and input is given
- Convolution is often used to define [[weighted average|weighted-average]] filters such as the [[Gaussian filtering|Gaussian filtering]]
- Convolution with a [[rectangular function|rectangular pulse]] generate [[moving average|moving average]] (smoothing) of the original signal

Commit message:

[PUBLISHER] Merge #59
* PUSH NOTE : visual explanation of convolution.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : diagonal slice discrete convolution.png

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : continuous convolution visualization diagonal.png

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : convolution Riemann sum.png

* PUSH NOTE : sum of random variables.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : convolution rectangle.png

* PUSH NOTE : independence.md

* PUSH NOTE : probability mass function.md

* PUSH NOTE : probability MOC.md

* PUSH NOTE : polynomial multiplication as convolution.md

* PUSH NOTE : numerical integration.md

* PUSH NOTE : mutually exclusive events.md

* PUSH NOTE : moment generating functions.md

* PUSH NOTE : logical conditional.md

* PUSH NOTE : law of large numbers.md

* PUSH NOTE : frontal lobe.md

* PUSH NOTE : desirable difficulty.md

* PUSH NOTE : convolution.md

* PUSH NOTE : conditional probability.md

* PUSH NOTE : complex frequency.md

* PUSH NOTE : central limit theorem.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : central limit theorem.webp

* PUSH NOTE : binomial distribution.md

* PUSH NOTE : Wald's equation.md

* PUSH NOTE : Poisson distribution.md

* PUSH NOTE : Myers–Briggs Type Indicator.md

* PUSH NOTE : Euler's formula.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/independent events.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/sum of random variable.md

content/Concepts/convolution.md, after:

---
created: 2024-08-23
modified: 2024-11-07
parent:
  - "[[functions|function]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - math/convolution
---
**Convolution** is a mathematical operation of combining two functions $f$ and $g$ and forming a third function $f * g$. It can be view as the amount of overlap of one function when it is shifted over another function.

> [!definition] Definition of Convolution
> For continuous functions, we have
> $$
> f(t) * g(t) = \int_{\tau = -\infty}^{\infty} f(\tau) g(t - \tau) \, d\tau 
> $$
> For discrete signals, we have convolution defined as
> $$
> (f * g)[n] := \sum_{i=-\infty}^\infty f[i] \cdot g[n - i]
> $$

## Subtopics
- [[./visual explanation of convolution|visual explanation of convolution]]
- [[convolution as smoothing|convolution as smoothing]]
- [[./convolution theorem|convolution theorem]] - relation of convolution and Fourier-like transforms

## Properties of Convolution
Convolution has several nice properties:
- $f * g = g * f$ ([[commutativity|commutativity]])
- $f * (g * h) = (f * g) * h$ ([[associativity|associativity]])
- $f * (g + h) = (f * g) + (f * h)$ ([[distributivity|distributivity]])
- $f(t) * \delta(t - T) = f(t - T)$ ([[./impulse convolution|impulse convolution]])
- If $y(t) = f(t) * g(t)$, then $f(t - T) * g(t) = f(t) * g(t - T) = y(t - T)$ (time shift property)
- If $f(t) * g(t) = y(t)$, $f(at) * g(at) = \left|\frac{1}{a}\right|\ y(at)$ ([[./time scaling property of convolution|time scaling property]])
 
## Applications
Convolutions has various applications. For example:
- [[./polynomial multiplication as convolution|multiplication of polynomials as convolution]]
- [[convolution of probability distributions|sum of probability distributions as convolution]] and the [[./central limit theorem|central limit theorem]]
- convolution can be used to express the output of a [[./linear time-invariant system|linear time-invariant system]] when [[./zero-input response and zero-state response|zero-state response]] and input is given
- Convolution is often used to express [[filter (signal processing)|filters]] such as the [[Gaussian filtering|Gaussian filtering]]
