content/Concepts/discrete signals and systems.md, before:

---
parent:
  - "[[systems|system]]"
tags:
  - signal/systems
created: 2024-08-27
modified: 2024-09-30
aliases:
  - discrete-time signal
  - discrete signal
  - discrete systems
publish: true
---
Signals defined only at discrete instants of time $t_0, t_1, \dots, t_n$ are **discrete signals**, denoted by symbols $x(x_n)$, $x(y_n)$, and so on, where $n$ is an integer. Systems whose inputs and outputs are discrete signals are **discrete systems**.

If the samples are uniformly distributed, we further simplify this notation to $x[n], y[n], \dots$ 

Discrete signals naturally occur in scenarios where the input is inherently discrete. They can also result from [[./sampling (signal processing)|sampling]] continuous-time signals. For example, in [[filter (signal processing)|digital filtering]], a continuous signal $x(t)$ is first sampled to convert into a discrete signal $x[t]$, which then is processed by a discrete-time system to yield an output $y[t]$, and at the end we [[./sample reconstruction|reconstruct]] a continuous system $y(t)$. [^1]
![[../assets/processing continuous signal as discrete.png|processing continuous signal as discrete.png]]

## Discrete System Representation
Instead of differential equations, we can use [[./difference equations|difference equations]] to represent a discrete system. For example,
$$
y[n] = x[n] - x[n - 1]
$$

[^1]: Linear Systems and Signals, 3rd Edition, 1.7.5

Commit message:

[PUBLISHER] Merge #53
* PUSH NOTE : impulse convolution.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : impulse convolution.webp

* PUSH NOTE : tidy data.md

* PUSH NOTE : systems.md

* PUSH NOTE : statistics.md

* PUSH NOTE : signal operations.md

* PUSH NOTE : numerical integration.md

* PUSH NOTE : modulo.md

* PUSH NOTE : hazard pointer.md

* PUSH NOTE : frontal lobe.md

* PUSH NOTE : discrete signals and systems.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : block diagram example.png

* PUSH NOTE : digital gardens.md

* PUSH NOTE : desirable difficulty.md

* PUSH NOTE : convolution.md

* PUSH NOTE : control flow graph.md

* PUSH NOTE : calculus.md

content/Concepts/discrete signals and systems.md, after:

---
parent:
  - "[[systems|system]]"
tags:
  - signal/systems
created: 2024-08-27
modified: 2024-10-28
aliases:
  - discrete-time signal
  - discrete signal
  - discrete systems
publish: true
---
Signals defined only at discrete instants of time $t_0, t_1, \dots, t_n$ are **discrete signals**, denoted by symbols $x(x_n)$, $x(y_n)$, and so on, where $n$ is an integer. Systems whose inputs and outputs are discrete signals are **discrete systems**.

If the samples are uniformly distributed, we further simplify this notation to $x[n], y[n], \dots$ 

Discrete signals naturally occur in scenarios where the input is inherently discrete. They can also result from [[./sampling (signal processing)|sampling]] continuous-time signals. For example, in [[filter (signal processing)|digital filtering]], a continuous signal $x(t)$ is first sampled to convert into a discrete signal $x[t]$, which then is processed by a discrete-time system to yield an output $y[t]$, and at the end we [[./sample reconstruction|reconstruct]] a continuous system $y(t)$. [^1]
![[../assets/processing continuous signal as discrete.png|processing continuous signal as discrete.png]]

## Discrete System Representation
Instead of differential equations, we can use [[./difference equations|difference equations]] to represent a discrete system. For example,
$$
y[n] = x[n] - x[n - 1]
$$
An alternative is a [[block diagram|block diagram]] like the following:
![[../assets/block diagram example.png|400]]

Difference equations are mathematically precise and concise. However, since difference equation is declarative, it does not show the signal flow path. On the other hand, the block diagram is imperative, and can directly translate into a hardware implementation or an algorithm. [^2]

Another alternative representation that combines the strength of difference equations and block diagrams are the [[signal operators|operator notation]]. For example, let $\mathcal{R}$ be the right-shift operation, and let $X$ and $Y$ represents the whole input and output signals, then we can represent the above system as
$$
Y = X - \mathcal{R}X = (1 - \mathcal{R})X
$$


[^1]: Linear Systems and Signals, 3rd Edition, 1.7.5
[^2]: [Lecture 2: Discrete-time systems | Signals and Systems | MIT OpenCourseWare](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/6-003-signals-and-systems-fall-2011/resources/mit6_003f11_lec02/)
