content/Concepts/fiber.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - green thread
  - stackful coroutines
created: 2023-10-02
modified: 2024-03-14
parent: 
publish: true
tags:
  - computing/coroutine
---
Fibers are also called *green thread* or *stackful* [[./coroutines|coroutines]]. [[threads|Threads]] are typically the smallest unit of scheduling supported by operating systems, and fibers are OS construct built on top of threads.

Each fiber has their own user-space stack. And fibers can support 1:M or N:M configurations where each thread can support multiple fibers or even where M fibers are multiplexed over N threads.

Fibers are often considered to be inferior to stackless coroutines [^1]. Fibers are
- not portable (tied to OS and hardware architecture)
- non-compatible with a bunch of other existing programming patterns
- invasive and require changes of all synchronization and blocking APIs to be fiber-aware
- have a high context-switch cost
- can cause pervasive stack overflow errors that are hard to debug

## References
[^1]: [[Fibers under the magnifying glass|Fibers under the magnifying glass]]

Commit message:

[PUBLISHER] Merge #48
* PUSH NOTE : Monte Carlo methods.md

* PUSH NOTE : why some compilers preserving parenthesis in AST.md

* PUSH NOTE : unification.md

* PUSH NOTE : tree data structures.md

* PUSH NOTE : top-down vs bottom-up parsing.md

* PUSH NOTE : stream compaction.md

* PUSH NOTE : shadow array.md

* PUSH NOTE : sequence algorithms.md

* PUSH NOTE : sampling.md

* PUSH NOTE : sampling (signal processing).md

* PUSH NOTE : randomized algorithms.md

* PUSH NOTE : pull parser vs push parser.md

* PUSH NOTE : prefix sum.md

* PUSH NOTE : parsing.md

* PUSH NOTE : parsing expression grammar.md

* PUSH NOTE : parser error recovery.md

* PUSH NOTE : parser combinator.md

* PUSH NOTE : parentheses around the condition.md

* PUSH NOTE : parallel scan.md

* PUSH NOTE : parallel reduction.md

* PUSH NOTE : parallel algorithms.md

* PUSH NOTE : operator precedence parser.md

* PUSH NOTE : numerical integration.md

* PUSH NOTE : numerical analysis.md

* PUSH NOTE : left recursion.md

* PUSH NOTE : iterative deepening depth-first search.md

* PUSH NOTE : importance sampling.md

* PUSH NOTE : hazard pointer.md

* PUSH NOTE : greek letters.md

* PUSH NOTE : generating uniform distributed integer.md

* PUSH NOTE : frontal lobe.md

* PUSH NOTE : fiber.md

* PUSH NOTE : desirable difficulty.md

* PUSH NOTE : dangling else problem.md

* PUSH NOTE : coroutines.md

* PUSH NOTE : control flow graph.md

* PUSH NOTE : context-free grammar.md

* PUSH NOTE : conditional expression.md

* PUSH NOTE : concurrency.md

* PUSH NOTE : bidirectional search.md

* PUSH NOTE : algorithms.md

* PUSH NOTE : abstract syntax tree.md

* PUSH NOTE : Pseudorandom number generator.md

* PUSH NOTE : Pratt parsing.md

* PUSH NOTE : Parsing angle bracket.md

* PUSH NOTE : Monte Carlo integration.md

* PUSH NOTE : LL and LR parsing.md

* PUSH NOTE : Graph Searching Algorithms.md

* PUSH NOTE : AST representation.md

content/Concepts/fiber.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - green thread
  - stackful coroutines
created: 2023-10-02
modified: 2024-10-24
parent:
  - "[[concurrency|concurrency]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - computing/coroutine
  - computing/concurrency
---
Fibers are also called *green thread* or *stackful* [[./coroutines|coroutines]]. [[threads|Threads]] are typically the smallest unit of scheduling supported by operating systems, and fibers are OS construct built on top of threads.

Each fiber has their own user-space stack. And fibers can support 1:M or N:M configurations where each thread can support multiple fibers or even where M fibers are multiplexed over N threads.

Fibers are often considered to be inferior to stackless coroutines [^1]. Fibers are
- not portable (tied to OS and hardware architecture), or require runtime support
- non-compatible with a bunch of other existing programming patterns
- invasive and require changes of all synchronization and blocking APIs to be fiber-aware
- can cause pervasive stack overflow errors that are hard to debug

## References
[^1]: [[Fibers under the magnifying glass|Fibers under the magnifying glass]]
