content/Concepts/law of large numbers.md, before:

---
parent:
  - "[[probability MOC|probability MOC]]"
tags:
  - math/probability
publish: true
created: 2024-09-18
modified: 2024-09-18
---
The **law of large numbers** (LLN) states that the [[mean|average]] of the [[outcome|outcomes]] from a large number of [[independent random variables|independent]] random samples converges to the [[./expectation|expected value]]. For example, if we flip a fair dice 100,000 times, the result should be closer to 0.5 than if we flip the dice 10 times on average.

More formally, the LLN states that given a sample of [[./independent and identically distributed random variables|independent and identically distributed values]], the [[sample mean and variance|sample mean]] converges to the population mean. [^1]

Note that the LLN only applies to the [[sample mean and variance|sample mean]]. It does not claim that the sample sum gets close to the $n E(X)$ when $n$ increase.

## Related
- [[Monte Carlo methods|Monte Carlo methods]]

[^1]: [Law of large numbers - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_large_numbers)

Commit message:

[PUBLISHER] Merge #59
* PUSH NOTE : visual explanation of convolution.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : diagonal slice discrete convolution.png

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : continuous convolution visualization diagonal.png

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : convolution Riemann sum.png

* PUSH NOTE : sum of random variables.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : convolution rectangle.png

* PUSH NOTE : independence.md

* PUSH NOTE : probability mass function.md

* PUSH NOTE : probability MOC.md

* PUSH NOTE : polynomial multiplication as convolution.md

* PUSH NOTE : numerical integration.md

* PUSH NOTE : mutually exclusive events.md

* PUSH NOTE : moment generating functions.md

* PUSH NOTE : logical conditional.md

* PUSH NOTE : law of large numbers.md

* PUSH NOTE : frontal lobe.md

* PUSH NOTE : desirable difficulty.md

* PUSH NOTE : convolution.md

* PUSH NOTE : conditional probability.md

* PUSH NOTE : complex frequency.md

* PUSH NOTE : central limit theorem.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : central limit theorem.webp

* PUSH NOTE : binomial distribution.md

* PUSH NOTE : Wald's equation.md

* PUSH NOTE : Poisson distribution.md

* PUSH NOTE : Myers–Briggs Type Indicator.md

* PUSH NOTE : Euler's formula.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/independent events.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/sum of random variable.md

content/Concepts/law of large numbers.md, after:

---
parent:
  - "[[probability MOC|probability MOC]]"
tags:
  - math/probability
publish: true
created: 2024-09-18
modified: 2024-11-07
---
The **law of large numbers** (LLN) states that the [[mean|average]] of the [[outcome|outcomes]] from a large number of [[./independence|independent]] random samples converges to the [[./expectation|expected value]]. For example, if we flip a fair dice 100,000 times, the result should be closer to 0.5 than if we flip the dice 10 times on average.

More formally, the LLN states that given a sample of [[./independent and identically distributed random variables|independent and identically distributed values]], the [[sample mean and variance|sample mean]] converges to the population mean. [^1]

Note that the LLN only applies to the [[sample mean and variance|sample mean]]. It does not claim that the sample sum gets close to the $n E(X)$ when $n$ increase.

## Related
- [[./Monte Carlo methods|Monte Carlo methods]]
- [[./central limit theorem|central limit theorem]] - describe the distribution of the sum of iid random variables

[^1]: [Law of large numbers - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_large_numbers)
