content/Concepts/pl design.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - programming language design
  - novel programming language features
  - interesting programming language features
created: 2024-01-26
modified: 2024-04-23
parent:
  - "[[programming languages MOC|programming languages MOC]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - computing/PL
title: Programming Language Design MOC
---
## Approachability
- [[The Hard Part of Learning a Language note|The Hard Part of Learning a Language note]]

## Interesting Features
- [[./allocators for zig containers|allocators for zig containers]]
- [[./defer statement|defer statement]]
- [[./expression-oriented language|expression-oriented language]]
- [[second-class reference|second-class reference]]
- [[./capability system|capabilities system]]
- [[./distinct types|distinct types]]
- [[./implicit parameters|implicit parameters]]
- [[./geometry type system|geometry type system]]

## Design Mistakes and Anti-Features
- [[./covariant arrays in Java and C-Sharp|Covariant arrays]]
- [[./implicit variable declaration|implicit variable declaration]]
- [[./Javascript variable hoisting|Javascript variable hoisting]]
- [[late binding closure in Python|late binding closure in Python]]
- [[./std_max_returns_wrong_value|C++ std::max returns wrong value]]
- [[./wildcard import enum constants in Rust|context sensitive pattern matching in Rust]]

## Safety
- [[./law of exclusivity|law of exclusivity]]

## Thoughts
- [[../Writings/on viral annotations|on viral annotations]]
- [[../Writings/On language features that 'encourage bad practices'|On language features that 'encourage bad practices']]
- [[../Writings/On access control|On access control]]

Commit message:

[PUBLISHER] Merge #44
* PUSH NOTE : variadic functions.md

* PUSH NOTE : python -m pip.md

* PUSH NOTE : the C programming language.md

* PUSH NOTE : pl design.md

* PUSH NOTE : pip.md

* PUSH NOTE : philosophy of science and metascience.md

* PUSH NOTE : latex cheat sheet.md

* PUSH NOTE : hypothesis testing.md

* PUSH NOTE : hazard pointer.md

* PUSH NOTE : frontal lobe.md

* PUSH NOTE : desirable difficulty.md

* PUSH NOTE : convolution theorem.md

* PUSH NOTE : constexpr vs static constexpr.md

* PUSH NOTE : binomial distribution.md

* PUSH NOTE : aligning equations in Latex.md

* PUSH NOTE : Python.md

* PUSH NOTE : Python virtual environment.md

* PUSH NOTE : C++.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/python m pip.md

content/Concepts/pl design.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - programming language design
  - novel programming language features
  - interesting programming language features
created: 2024-01-26
modified: 2024-04-23
parent:
  - "[[programming languages MOC|programming languages MOC]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - computing/PL
title: Programming Language Design MOC
---
## Approachability
- [[The Hard Part of Learning a Language note|The Hard Part of Learning a Language note]]

## Interesting Features
- [[./allocators for zig containers|allocators for zig containers]]
- [[./defer statement|defer statement]]
- [[./expression-oriented language|expression-oriented language]]
- [[second-class reference|second-class reference]]
- [[./capability system|capabilities system]]
- [[./distinct types|distinct types]]
- [[./implicit parameters|implicit parameters]]
- [[./geometry type system|geometry type system]]
- [[../Fleeting/variadic functions|variadic functions]]

## Design Mistakes and Anti-Features
- [[./covariant arrays in Java and C-Sharp|Covariant arrays]]
- [[./implicit variable declaration|implicit variable declaration]]
- [[./Javascript variable hoisting|Javascript variable hoisting]]
- [[./late binding closure in Python|late binding closure in Python]]
- [[./std_max_returns_wrong_value|C++ std::max returns wrong value]]
- [[./wildcard import enum constants in Rust|context sensitive pattern matching in Rust]]

## Safety
- [[./law of exclusivity|law of exclusivity]]

## Thoughts
- [[../Writings/on viral annotations|on viral annotations]]
- [[../Writings/On language features that encourages bad practices|On language features that "encourages bad practices"]]
- [[../Writings/On access control|On access control]]
