content/Concepts/probability MOC.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - "#math/probability"
created: 2023-05-30
modified: 2024-10-07
parent:
  - "[[math|math]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - math/probability
---
## Basic Probability
- [[event (probability)|event]]
  - [[./independent events|independent events]]
  - [[./mutually exclusive events|mutually exclusive events]]
- [[./probability|probability]] (chance)
- [[axioms of probability|axioms of probability]]
- [[sample space|sample space]]
- [[outcome|outcome]]

## Random Variables
- [[./random variable|random variables]]
- [[./expectation|expectation]]
- [[./variance|variance]]
- [[independent random variables|independent random variables]]

## Functions on Probability Distributions
- [[./probability density function|PDF]] and [[./probability mass function|PMF]]
- [[./cumulative distribution function|CDF]]
- [[./quantile function|quantile function]]

## Joint and Marginal Probability
See [[joint probability|joint probability]] and [[marginal probability|marginal probability]]
- [[covariance|covariance]] and [[./correlation|correlation]]

## Conditional Probability
See [[./conditional probability|conditional probability]]
- [[Bayes' theorem|Bayes' theorem]]
- [[law of total probability|law of total probability]]
## Distributions
### Discrete
- [[uniform distribution|Uniform]] (Discrete)
- [[./binomial distribution|Binomial]]
  - [[multinomial distribution|Multinomial]]
- [[./Poisson distribution|Poisson]]
- [[geometric distribution|Geometric]]
### Continuous
- [[uniform distribution|Uniform]] (Continuous)
- [[./normal distribution|Normal]] (also called Gaussian)
  - [[log-normal distribution|Log-normal]]
- [[./Student's t-distribution|Student's T-Distribution]]
- [[./exponential random variable|Exponential]]

## Parameter Estimation
- [[./sampling (signal processing)|sampling (signal processing)]]
- [[estimator|estimator]]
- [[bias of an estimator|bias of an estimator]]
- [[sample mean and variance|sample mean and variance]]
- [[./central limit theorem|central limit theorem]]
- [[./confidence interval|confidence interval]]
- [[./law of large numbers|law of large numbers]]
## Fallacies
- [[./biases in statistics|probability fallacies]]

## Related
- [[combinatorics|combinatorics]]
- [[./statistics|statistics]]

Commit message:

[PUBLISHER] Merge #59
* PUSH NOTE : visual explanation of convolution.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : diagonal slice discrete convolution.png

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : continuous convolution visualization diagonal.png

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : convolution Riemann sum.png

* PUSH NOTE : sum of random variables.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : convolution rectangle.png

* PUSH NOTE : independence.md

* PUSH NOTE : probability mass function.md

* PUSH NOTE : probability MOC.md

* PUSH NOTE : polynomial multiplication as convolution.md

* PUSH NOTE : numerical integration.md

* PUSH NOTE : mutually exclusive events.md

* PUSH NOTE : moment generating functions.md

* PUSH NOTE : logical conditional.md

* PUSH NOTE : law of large numbers.md

* PUSH NOTE : frontal lobe.md

* PUSH NOTE : desirable difficulty.md

* PUSH NOTE : convolution.md

* PUSH NOTE : conditional probability.md

* PUSH NOTE : complex frequency.md

* PUSH NOTE : central limit theorem.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : central limit theorem.webp

* PUSH NOTE : binomial distribution.md

* PUSH NOTE : Wald's equation.md

* PUSH NOTE : Poisson distribution.md

* PUSH NOTE : Myers–Briggs Type Indicator.md

* PUSH NOTE : Euler's formula.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/independent events.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/sum of random variable.md

content/Concepts/probability MOC.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - "#math/probability"
created: 2023-05-30
modified: 2024-10-07
parent:
  - "[[math|math]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - math/probability
---
## Basic Probability
- [[event (probability)|event]]
- [[./probability|probability]] (chance)
- [[axioms of probability|axioms of probability]]
- [[sample space|sample space]]
- [[outcome|outcome]]
- [[./independence|independence]]
## Random Variables
- [[./random variable|random variables]]
- [[./expectation|expectation]]
- [[./variance|variance]]
- [[./sum of random variables|sum of random variables]]

## Functions on Probability Distributions
- [[./probability density function|PDF]] and [[./probability mass function|PMF]]
- [[./cumulative distribution function|CDF]]
- [[./quantile function|quantile function]]

## Joint and Marginal Probability
See [[joint probability|joint probability]] and [[marginal probability|marginal probability]]
- [[covariance|covariance]] and [[./correlation|correlation]]

## Conditional Probability
See [[./conditional probability|conditional probability]]
- [[Bayes' theorem|Bayes' theorem]]
- [[law of total probability|law of total probability]]
## Distributions
### Discrete
- [[uniform distribution|Uniform]] (Discrete)
- [[./binomial distribution|Binomial]]
  - [[multinomial distribution|Multinomial]]
- [[./Poisson distribution|Poisson]]
- [[geometric distribution|Geometric]]
### Continuous
- [[uniform distribution|Uniform]] (Continuous)
- [[./normal distribution|Normal]] (also called Gaussian)
  - [[log-normal distribution|Log-normal]]
- [[./Student's t-distribution|Student's T-Distribution]]
- [[./exponential random variable|Exponential]]

## Parameter Estimation
- [[./sampling (signal processing)|sampling (signal processing)]]
- [[estimator|estimator]]
- [[bias of an estimator|bias of an estimator]]
- [[sample mean and variance|sample mean and variance]]
- [[./central limit theorem|central limit theorem]]
- [[./confidence interval|confidence interval]]
- [[./law of large numbers|law of large numbers]]
## Fallacies
- [[./biases in statistics|probability fallacies]]

## Related
- [[combinatorics|combinatorics]]
- [[./statistics|statistics]]
