content/Concepts/reflection.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - vector reflection
created: 2024-07-08
modified: 2024-07-09
parent:
  - "[[Euclidean vector space|Euclidean vectors]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - math/LinearAlgebra
---
If we have a unit vector $\mathbf{a}$ and a vector $\mathbf{v}$, we can reflect the vector $\mathbf{v}$ by a plane perpendicular to $\mathbf{a}$.

![[../assets/vector reflection.png|vector reflection.png]]

This can be done by decomposing $\mathbf{v}$ into the perpendicular component $\mathbf{v}_\perp = (\mathbf{v} \cdot \mathbf{a}) \mathbf{a}$ and the parallel component $\mathbf{v}_\parallel = \mathbf{v} - \mathbf{v}_\perp = \mathbf{v} - (\mathbf{v} \cdot \mathbf{a})\mathbf{a}$.

$$
\begin{eqnarray}R_{\mathbf{a}}(\mathbf{v}) &=& \mathbf{v}_\parallel - \mathbf{v}_\perp \\ 
 &=& ( \mathbf{v} - (\mathbf{v} \cdot \mathbf{a})\mathbf{a} ) - ((\mathbf{v} \cdot \mathbf{a}) \mathbf{a}) \\
 &=&\mathbf{v} - 2 (\mathbf{v} \cdot \mathbf{a}) \mathbf{a}\end{eqnarray}
$$

## See Also
- [[./two reflections gives a rotation|two reflections gives a rotation]]

Commit message:

[PUBLISHER] Merge #37
* PUSH NOTE : orthogonal functions.md

* PUSH NOTE : color science.md

* PUSH NOTE : two reflections gives a rotation.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : rotation as two reflection orientation.png

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : translation as two reflections.png

* PUSH NOTE : tristimulus theory of color.md

* PUSH NOTE : translation.md

* PUSH NOTE : time and frequency domain.md

* PUSH NOTE : spectral power distribution.md

* PUSH NOTE : size of a signal.md

* PUSH NOTE : signal processing.md

* PUSH NOTE : rotors.md

* PUSH NOTE : rotation.md

* PUSH NOTE : reflection.md

* PUSH NOTE : orthogonal.md

* PUSH NOTE : orthogonal transformation.md

* PUSH NOTE : orthogonal matrix.md

* PUSH NOTE : inner product.md

* PUSH NOTE : hazard pointer.md

* PUSH NOTE : function space.md

* PUSH NOTE : frontal lobe.md

* PUSH NOTE : even and odd functions.md

* PUSH NOTE : dot product.md

* PUSH NOTE : digital gardens.md

* PUSH NOTE : desirable difficulty.md

* PUSH NOTE : computer graphics MOC.md

* PUSH NOTE : Fourier series.md

* PUSH NOTE : Euclidean vector space.md

* PUSH NOTE : Chromaticity.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/color theory.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/express functions as even and odd components.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/inner product space.md

content/Concepts/reflection.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - vector reflection
created: 2024-07-08
modified: 2024-10-11
parent:
  - "[[Euclidean vector space|Euclidean vectors]]"
  - "[[./orthogonal transformation|orthogonal transformation]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - math/geometry
  - math/LinearAlgebra/orthogonality
---
If we have a unit vector $\mathbf{a}$ and a vector $\mathbf{v}$, we can reflect the vector $\mathbf{v}$ by a plane perpendicular to $\mathbf{a}$.

![[../assets/vector reflection.png|vector reflection.png]]

This can be done by decomposing $\mathbf{v}$ into the perpendicular component $\mathbf{v}_\perp = (\mathbf{v} \cdot \mathbf{a}) \mathbf{a}$ and the parallel component $\mathbf{v}_\parallel = \mathbf{v} - \mathbf{v}_\perp = \mathbf{v} - (\mathbf{v} \cdot \mathbf{a})\mathbf{a}$.

$$
\begin{eqnarray}R_{\mathbf{a}}(\mathbf{v}) &=& \mathbf{v}_\parallel - \mathbf{v}_\perp \\ 
 &=& ( \mathbf{v} - (\mathbf{v} \cdot \mathbf{a})\mathbf{a} ) - ((\mathbf{v} \cdot \mathbf{a}) \mathbf{a}) \\
 &=&\mathbf{v} - 2 (\mathbf{v} \cdot \mathbf{a}) \mathbf{a}\end{eqnarray}
$$

## As Orthogonal Transformation
Both rotation and reflection are [[./orthogonal transformation|orthogonal transformation]], and both of them preserve the origin and distance between two points. However, a key difference is that reflection does not preserve _orientation_.

When represented as an [[./orthogonal matrix|matrix]] $A$, the reflection will have a [[./determinant|determinant]] $\det A < 0$.

## See Also
- [[./two reflections gives a rotation|two reflections gives a rotation]]
