content/Concepts/sampling.md, before:

---
tags:
  - disambiguation
title: sampling (disambiguation)
aliases:
  - sampling (disambiguation)
created: 2024-10-07
modified: 2024-10-07
publish: true
---
**Sampling** encompasses a range of interrelated concepts across different fields, each applying it uniquely to solve specific problems. Despite these variations, they share a common underlying principle: the extraction of representative, discrete subsets (samples) from larger, sometimes continuous, entities.

- [[./sampling (signal processing)|In signal processing]], sampling is the reduction of a continuous signal to a [[./discrete signals and systems|discrete signal]].
- [[sampling (statistics)|In statistics]], sampling is the selection of a subset of individuals from within a population to estimate characteristics of the whole population.

The core idea of sampling is interconnected across disciplines. For example, in [[Monte Carlo methods|Monte Carlo simulation]], the concept of random sampling can be interpreted as both a signal processing technique and a statistical method.

Commit message:

[PUBLISHER] Merge #48
* PUSH NOTE : Monte Carlo methods.md

* PUSH NOTE : why some compilers preserving parenthesis in AST.md

* PUSH NOTE : unification.md

* PUSH NOTE : tree data structures.md

* PUSH NOTE : top-down vs bottom-up parsing.md

* PUSH NOTE : stream compaction.md

* PUSH NOTE : shadow array.md

* PUSH NOTE : sequence algorithms.md

* PUSH NOTE : sampling.md

* PUSH NOTE : sampling (signal processing).md

* PUSH NOTE : randomized algorithms.md

* PUSH NOTE : pull parser vs push parser.md

* PUSH NOTE : prefix sum.md

* PUSH NOTE : parsing.md

* PUSH NOTE : parsing expression grammar.md

* PUSH NOTE : parser error recovery.md

* PUSH NOTE : parser combinator.md

* PUSH NOTE : parentheses around the condition.md

* PUSH NOTE : parallel scan.md

* PUSH NOTE : parallel reduction.md

* PUSH NOTE : parallel algorithms.md

* PUSH NOTE : operator precedence parser.md

* PUSH NOTE : numerical integration.md

* PUSH NOTE : numerical analysis.md

* PUSH NOTE : left recursion.md

* PUSH NOTE : iterative deepening depth-first search.md

* PUSH NOTE : importance sampling.md

* PUSH NOTE : hazard pointer.md

* PUSH NOTE : greek letters.md

* PUSH NOTE : generating uniform distributed integer.md

* PUSH NOTE : frontal lobe.md

* PUSH NOTE : fiber.md

* PUSH NOTE : desirable difficulty.md

* PUSH NOTE : dangling else problem.md

* PUSH NOTE : coroutines.md

* PUSH NOTE : control flow graph.md

* PUSH NOTE : context-free grammar.md

* PUSH NOTE : conditional expression.md

* PUSH NOTE : concurrency.md

* PUSH NOTE : bidirectional search.md

* PUSH NOTE : algorithms.md

* PUSH NOTE : abstract syntax tree.md

* PUSH NOTE : Pseudorandom number generator.md

* PUSH NOTE : Pratt parsing.md

* PUSH NOTE : Parsing angle bracket.md

* PUSH NOTE : Monte Carlo integration.md

* PUSH NOTE : LL and LR parsing.md

* PUSH NOTE : Graph Searching Algorithms.md

* PUSH NOTE : AST representation.md

content/Concepts/sampling.md, after:

---
tags:
  - disambiguation
title: sampling (disambiguation)
aliases:
  - sampling (disambiguation)
created: 2024-10-07
modified: 2024-10-24
publish: true
---
**Sampling** encompasses a range of interrelated concepts across different fields, each applying it uniquely to solve specific problems. Despite these variations, they share a common underlying principle: the extraction of representative, discrete subsets (samples) from larger, sometimes continuous, entities.

- [[./sampling (signal processing)|In signal processing]], sampling is the reduction of a continuous signal to a [[./discrete signals and systems|discrete signal]].
- [[sampling (statistics)|In statistics]], sampling is the selection of a subset of individuals from within a population to estimate characteristics of the whole population.
- [[pseudo-random number sampling|pseudo-random number sampling]], which generate pseudo-random numbers from a probability distribution

The core idea of sampling is interconnected across disciplines. For example, in [[./Monte Carlo methods|Monte Carlo simulation]], the concept of random sampling can be interpreted as both a signal processing technique and a statistical method.
