content/Concepts/shadow mapping.md, before:

---
created: 2023-10-18
modified: 2024-03-14
parent: 
publish: true
tags:
  - computing/graphics/Rasterization
  - computing/graphics/shadow
---

# Shadow Mapping
**Shadow mapping** is an image-space two-pass algorithm to generate shadows. The first pass generates depth value from light source to a "depth texture." And the second pass _reproject_ world space position to the depth texture, and compare the depth value to decide whether a point is in shadow.

## Downside of Shadow Mapping
There are several downside of the shadow map.
- You need to have one shadow map per light source
- It is easy to have [[./aliasing|aliasing]] effect (especially for low resolution shadow maps)
- [[./self-occlusion|self-occlusion]] problem can happen

There are several techniques to mitigate those problems:
- [[percentage closer filtering|percentage closer filtering]] (PCF) helps with aliasing

We can employ a depth bias to combat [[./self-occlusion|self-occlusion]], but it can also introduces [[./detached shadow|Peter panning]] effect:
![[../assets/detached shadow.png|400]]

## Extension to Shadow Maps
- [[cascaded shadow mapping|cascaded shadow mapping]] helps with aliasing
- [[percentage closer soft shadow|percentage closer soft shadow]] (PCSS) create soft shadows (based on [[percentage closer filtering|PCF]])
- [[variance shadow mapping|variance shadow mapping]] greatly reduce the texture sampling cost of [[percentage closer filtering|PCF]]
  - [[moment shadow mapping|moment shadow mapping]] solves some problem with VSM

Commit message:

[PUBLISHER] Merge #58
* PUSH NOTE : complex frequency.md

* PUSH NOTE : transfer function.md

* PUSH NOTE : system stability.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : asymptotic stability.webp

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : Location of characteristic roots and the corresponding characteristic modes.png

* PUSH NOTE : relationship between Laplace transform and Fourier transform.md

* PUSH NOTE : ray marching.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : naive ray marching.png

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : sphere tracing.png

* PUSH NOTE : shadow rendering.md

* PUSH NOTE : systems.md

* PUSH NOTE : signal.md

* PUSH NOTE : signal processing.md

* PUSH NOTE : shadow mapping.md

* PUSH NOTE : ray tracing.md

* PUSH NOTE : object intersections.md

* PUSH NOTE : numerical integration.md

* PUSH NOTE : microfacet theory.md

* PUSH NOTE : mathematical optimization.md

* PUSH NOTE : logical conditional.md

* PUSH NOTE : linear time-invariant system.md

* PUSH NOTE : linear system.md

* PUSH NOTE : frontal lobe.md

* PUSH NOTE : desirable difficulty.md

* PUSH NOTE : computer graphics MOC.md

* PUSH NOTE : characteristic equation.md

* PUSH NOTE : Newton's method.md

* PUSH NOTE : Euler's formula.md

* PUSH NOTE : Delaunay triangulation.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/complex exponential function.md

content/Concepts/shadow mapping.md, after:

---
created: 2023-10-18
modified: 2024-11-06
parent:
  - "[[shadow rendering|shadow rendering]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - computing/graphics/Rasterization
  - computing/graphics/shadow
---

**Shadow mapping** is an image-space two-pass algorithm to generate shadows. The first pass generates depth value from light source to a "depth texture." And the second pass _reproject_ world space position to the depth texture, and compare the depth value to decide whether a point is in shadow.

## Downside of Shadow Mapping
There are several downside of the shadow map.
- You need to have one shadow map per light source
- It is easy to have [[./aliasing|aliasing]] effect (especially for low resolution shadow maps)
- [[./self-occlusion|self-occlusion]] problem can happen

There are several techniques to mitigate those problems:
- [[percentage closer filtering|percentage closer filtering]] (PCF) helps with aliasing

We can employ a depth bias to combat [[./self-occlusion|self-occlusion]], but it can also introduces [[./detached shadow|Peter panning]] effect:
![[../assets/detached shadow.png|400]]

## Extension to Shadow Maps
### Anti-Aliasing
- [[percentage closer filtering|percentage closer filtering]] (PCF)
### Splitting
- [[cascaded shadow mapping|cascaded shadow mapping]]
- [[virtual shadow map|virtual shadow map]]
### Soft Shadows
- [[percentage closer soft shadow|percentage closer soft shadow]] (PCSS) create soft shadows (based on [[percentage closer filtering|PCF]])
- [[variance shadow mapping|variance shadow mapping]] greatly reduce the texture sampling cost of [[percentage closer filtering|PCF]]
  - [[moment shadow mapping|moment shadow mapping]] solves some problem with VSM
