content/Concepts/statistic graphics.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - "#statisticsAndDataScience/graphics"
created: 2024-08-07
modified: 2024-08-28
parent:
  - "[[statistics|statistics]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - statisticsAndDataScience/graphics
---

# Statistic Graphics
## Types
- [[bar plot|bar plot]]
- [[histogram|histogram]]
- [[./boxplot|boxplot]]
- [[scatter plot|scatter plot]]

## When to Use what

| Variables                      | Plot                                                                                                  | Numerical Summary Format                       |
| ------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| 1 Qualitative                  | Simple Barplot<br>![[../simple bar plot.png|simple bar plot.png]]                                                            | Frequency table<br><br>Most popular category   |
| 2 Qualitative                  | Double barplot![[../double bar plot.png|double bar plot.png]]                                                                | Contingency table<br><br>Most popular category |
| 1 Quantitative                 | Simple histogram & Simple boxplot<br>![[../simple histogram.png|simple histogram.png]]<br>![[../simple box plot.png|simple box plot.png]]            | Mean, median, SD, IQR, range                   |
| 2 Quantitative                 | Simple scatterplot<br>![[../simple scatterplot.png|simple scatterplot.png]]                                                     | Correlation coefficient<br><br>Linear model    |
| 1 Qualitative + 1 Quantitative | Comparative [[./boxplot|boxplot]] & Filtered histogram![[../comparative boxplot.jpeg|comparative boxplot.jpeg]]![[../filtered histogram.jpeg|filtered histogram.jpeg]] |                                                |
| 2 Quantitative+                | Filtered scatterplot<br>![[../filtered scatterplot.jpeg|filtered scatterplot.jpeg]]                                                |                                                |

Commit message:

[PUBLISHER] Merge #8
* PUSH NOTE : __syncthreads.md

* PUSH NOTE : BVH refitting.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : bad BVH refitting.jpg

* PUSH NOTE : wavefront.md

* PUSH NOTE : thread block.md

* PUSH NOTE : statistics.md

* PUSH NOTE : PowerShell.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : Obsidian Excalidraw.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : Visual atomic note taking with Obsidian Excalidraw.md

* PUSH NOTE : De Morgan's laws.md

* PUSH NOTE : dangling else problem.md

* PUSH NOTE : statistics.md

* PUSH NOTE : statistic graphics.md

* PUSH NOTE : set theory.md

* PUSH NOTE : sequences.md

* PUSH NOTE : Quartz customization log.md

* PUSH NOTE : proposition.md

* PUSH NOTE : normal distribution.md

* PUSH NOTE : logical equivalence.md

* PUSH NOTE : linear transformation.md

* PUSH NOTE : linear differential equation.md

* PUSH NOTE : injection.md

* PUSH NOTE : Git.md

* PUSH NOTE : exclusive or.md

* PUSH NOTE : developer tool in Obsidian.md

* PUSH NOTE : differential equations.md

* PUSH NOTE : desirable difficulty.md

* PUSH NOTE : CUDA.md

* PUSH NOTE : curve.md

* PUSH NOTE : CUDA Thread Hierarchy.md

* PUSH NOTE : CUDA memory and cache architecture.md

* PUSH NOTE : CUDA atomics.md

* PUSH NOTE : convergence of series.md

* PUSH NOTE : convergence of sequences.md

* PUSH NOTE : conditional expression.md

* PUSH NOTE : computer graphics MOC.md

* PUSH NOTE : complex numbers.md

* PUSH NOTE : closure property of vectors.md

* PUSH NOTE : C++ partial_sum exclusive_scan and inclusive_scan.md

* PUSH NOTE : BVH.md

* PUSH NOTE : allocators for zig containers.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/CUDA block.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/Obsidian Excalidraw.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/dangling else.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Concepts/shared memory.md

* DELETE FILE : content/Visual atomic note taking with Obsidian Excalidraw.md

content/Concepts/statistic graphics.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - "#statisticsAndDataScience/graphics"
created: 2024-08-07
modified: 2024-09-18
parent:
  - "[[statistics|statistics]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - statisticsAndDataScience/graphics
---
## Types
- [[bar plot|bar plot]]
- [[histogram|histogram]]
- [[./boxplot|boxplot]]
- [[scatter plot|scatter plot]]

## When to Use what

| Variables                      | Plot                                                                                                  | Numerical Summary Format                       |
| ------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| 1 Qualitative                  | Simple Barplot<br>![[../simple bar plot.png|simple bar plot.png]]                                                            | Frequency table<br><br>Most popular category   |
| 2 Qualitative                  | Double barplot![[../double bar plot.png|double bar plot.png]]                                                                | Contingency table<br><br>Most popular category |
| 1 Quantitative                 | Simple histogram & Simple boxplot<br>![[../simple histogram.png|simple histogram.png]]<br>![[../simple box plot.png|simple box plot.png]]            | Mean, median, SD, IQR, range                   |
| 2 Quantitative                 | Simple scatterplot<br>![[../simple scatterplot.png|simple scatterplot.png]]                                                     | Correlation coefficient<br><br>Linear model    |
| 1 Qualitative + 1 Quantitative | Comparative [[./boxplot|boxplot]] & Filtered histogram![[../comparative boxplot.jpeg|comparative boxplot.jpeg]]![[../filtered histogram.jpeg|filtered histogram.jpeg]] |                                                |
| 2 Quantitative+                | Filtered scatterplot<br>![[../filtered scatterplot.jpeg|filtered scatterplot.jpeg]]                                                |                                                |

## Further Reading
- [The R Graph Gallery – Help and inspiration for R charts](https://r-graph-gallery.com/)
