content/Concepts/validity (logic).md, before:

---
created: 2023-05-30
modified: 2024-08-16
parent:
  - "[[./argument|argument]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - logic
  - math/logic
title: Validity
---
In [[./deductive reasoning|deductive reasoning]] and [[./propositional logic|propositional logic]], an [[./argument|argument]] is **valid** [[./logical equivalence|if and only if]] the truth of [[premise|premises]] [[./entailment|entails]] the truth of conclusion. [^1]

## Relationship with NTP
Another concept, [[./necessarily truth-preserving|necessarily truth-preserving]] (NTP), closely resembles validity, but validity demands more. An argument is valid _solely due to its structure_. [^1] While this distinction is non-exist in formal logic language, it arise in natural languages. Consider the following argument:
$$
\begin{prooftree} 
\AXC{water is transparent}
\UIC{$H_2O$ is transparent}
\end{prooftree}
$$
The above argument is NTP only because we have the knowledge that water is $H_2O$. Thus, this is not a valid argument.

## Validity Test
We can test the validity of an argument by constructing a truth table that includes all possible combinations of basic propositions. By examining the truth table, we can determine if there is any row where the premises are all true, but the conclusion is false.

> [!example]-
> For example, if we have an argument as the following:
> $$
\begin{prooftree} 
\noLine \AXC{L $\lor$ R}
\UIC{L}
\UIC{$\lnot$ R}
\end{prooftree}
> $$
> We can create a truth table as the following:
> $$
\begin{array}{ll|l|l|l}
L & R & L \vee R & L & \neg R \\ \hline
\text { T } & \text { T } & \text { T } & \text { T } & \text { F } \\
\text { T } & \text { F } & \text { T } & \text { T } & \text { T } \\
\text { F } & \text { T } & \text { T } & \text { F } & \text { F } \\
\text { F } & \text { F } & \text { F } & \text { F } & \text { T }
\end{array}
> $$
> From the first row of the truth table, we observe that it is possible for all premises to be true while the conclusion is false. Therefore, the argument is invalid.

## Relationship with Soundness
Note that _validity doesn't mean truth_. If a promise is false, then even a valid argument can't guarantee conclusion. On the other hand, [[./affirming the consequent|even when the conclusion is true, we can't guarantee that the promise is true]]. If a valid argument is also true, we say that it is [[./deductive soundness|sound]].

[^1]: Smith, Nicholas J.J.. _Logic : The Laws of Truth_, Princeton University Press, 2012. Chapter 1

Commit message:

Notes 9 28 2024 (#26)
* PUSH NOTE : 'Overview of Spaced Repetition' note.md

* PUSH NOTE : sampling bias.md

* PUSH NOTE : rational number.md

* PUSH NOTE : convolution theorem.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : convolution theorem.png

* PUSH NOTE : obstructive sleep apnoea.md

* PUSH NOTE : circadian rhythm sleep disorders.md

* PUSH NOTE : delayed sleep phase disorder.md

* PUSH NOTE : soundness (formal system).md

* PUSH NOTE : psychology.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : Obsidian Excalidraw.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : Visual atomic note taking with Obsidian Excalidraw.md

* PUSH NOTE : keys in relational database.md

* PUSH NOTE : geometry representation.md

* PUSH NOTE : expertise reversal effect.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : expertise reversal effect.png

* PUSH NOTE : eigenvalues.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : eigen vector transformation.png

* PUSH NOTE : data collection.md

* PUSH NOTE : completeness.md

* PUSH NOTE : circadian cycle.md

* PUSH NOTE : Psychology Today.md

* PUSH NOTE : voxel MOC.md

* PUSH NOTE : validity (logic).md

* PUSH NOTE : time invariant system.md

* PUSH NOTE : The chameleon effect.md

* PUSH NOTE : systems.md

* PUSH NOTE : spline.md

* PUSH NOTE : spaced repetition.md

* PUSH NOTE : social psychology.md

* PUSH NOTE : sleep stages.md

* PUSH NOTE : sleep.md

* PUSH NOTE : skepticism.md

* PUSH NOTE : signal processing.md

* PUSH NOTE : signal.md

* PUSH NOTE : series.md

* PUSH NOTE : self-perception theory.md

* PUSH NOTE : rumination.md

* PUSH NOTE : Russell's paradox.md

* PUSH NOTE : root test.md

* PUSH NOTE : rendering voxels.md

* PUSH NOTE : real number.md

* PUSH NOTE : ratio test.md

* PUSH NOTE : RAII.md

* PUSH NOTE : Quartz customization log.md

content/Concepts/validity (logic).md, after:

---
created: 2023-05-30
modified: 2024-09-28
parent:
  - "[[./argument|argument]]"
publish: true
tags:
  - logic
  - math/logic
title: Validity
---
An [[./argument|argument]] is **valid** [[./logical equivalence|if and only if]] the truth of [[premise|premises]] [[./entailment|entails]] the truth of conclusion. [^1]

## Relationship with NTP
Another concept, [[./necessarily truth-preserving|necessarily truth-preserving]] (NTP), closely resembles validity, but validity demands more. An argument is valid _solely due to its structure_. [^1] While this distinction is non-exist in formal logic language, it arise in natural languages. Consider the following argument:
$$
\begin{prooftree} 
\AXC{water is transparent}
\UIC{$H_2O$ is transparent}
\end{prooftree}
$$
The above argument is NTP only because we have the knowledge that water is $H_2O$. Thus, this is not a valid argument.

## Validity Test
There are various way to test the validity of an argument such as:
- [[truth table|truth table]] - only works in [[./propositional logic|propositional logic]] and can become unwieldy with numerous basic propositions due to combinatorial explosion
- [[./truth tree|truth tree]] (semantic tableaux) - can often be more efficient than a truth table and also works in [[predicate logic|predicate logic]] 
- [[model checking|model checking]] - systematically enumerates all possible states of a system to verify properties. Only works with finite domains
- [[direct proofs|direct proofs]]
- [[natural deduction|natural deduction]]
- [[SAT solver|SAT solvers]]

Also, if we can get a counterexample where premises are true but the conclusion is false, we can immediately prove that an argument is invalid.

## Relationship with Soundness
Note that _validity doesn't mean truth_. If a promise is false, then even a valid argument can't guarantee conclusion. On the other hand, [[./affirming the consequent|even when the conclusion is true, we can't guarantee that the promise is true]]. If a valid argument is also true, we say that it is [[./deductive soundness|sound]].

[^1]: Smith, Nicholas J.J.. _Logic : The Laws of Truth_, Princeton University Press, 2012. Chapter 1
