content/Writings/index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - "#opinion"
created: 2024-02-06
modified: 2024-10-01
publish: true
tags:
  - opinion
title: Writings
---
This page contains some half-backed personal thoughts and other writing. If you prefer more structured writing, be sure to check out [my blog](https://lesleylai.info/) as well.

## My Reviews
- [[./website reviews|website reviews]]
- [[./software reviews|software reviews]]

## Programming
- [[./Avoid premature generalization|Avoid premature generalization]]
- [[./the suggestion 'think before you code' may not always lead to the best outcomes|the suggestion 'think before you code' may not always lead to the best outcomes]]
- [[don't make programming language, API, or tools part of your identity|don't make programming language, API, or tools part of your identity]]

### PL Design
- [[./On language features that encourages bad practices|On language features that "encourages bad practices"]]
- [[./On access control|On access control]]
- [[./on viral annotations|On Viral Annotations]]

## Life
- [[./focus on what kind of person you want to be rather than future achievement|focus on what kind of person you want to be rather than future achievement]]
- [[./debating is unproductive|debating is unproductive]]
- [[../Concepts/imposter syndrome|imposter syndrome]]

### Memes
- [[./On the IQ bell curve meme|On the IQ bell curve meme]]

## Philosophy and Ethics
- [[./On trolley problems and other sacrificial dilemmas|On trolley problems and other sacrificial dilemmas]]

## Inclusion
- [[./RTFM|On "RTFM"]]

## UI & UX
- [[./on brutalist and neobrutalist web design|on brutalist and neobrutalist web design]]
- [[./on estimated reading times|on estimated reading times]]

## Uncategorized
- [[./Eisenhower Matrix|Eisenhower Matrix]]
- [[../Concepts/how to design flashcards|how to design flashcards]]
- [[my bullshit radar|my bullshit radar]]
- [[On C++ STL|On C++ STL]]
- [[./on programming language complexity and bad features|on programming language complexity and bad features]]
- [[../Concepts/proof by assertion|proof by assertion]]
- [[./scapegoats and silver bullets|scapegoats and silver bullets]]

Commit message:

[PUBLISHER] Merge #39
* PUSH NOTE : weeding courses are bad teaching.md

* PUSH NOTE : evaluated at in Latex.md

* PUSH NOTE : system programming.md

* PUSH NOTE : aligning equations in Latex.md

* PUSH NOTE : index.md

* PUSH NOTE : unorm and snorm.md

* PUSH NOTE : the C programming language.md

* PUSH NOTE : statistics.md

* PUSH NOTE : performance MOC.md

* PUSH NOTE : nibble.md

* PUSH NOTE : matrices in latex.md

* PUSH NOTE : mathematical optimization.md

* PUSH NOTE : latex.md

* PUSH NOTE : instruction set architectures.md

* PUSH NOTE : hazard pointer.md

* PUSH NOTE : frontal lobe.md

* PUSH NOTE : floating-point number.md

* PUSH NOTE : flexbox.md

* PUSH NOTE : fixed-point number.md

* PUSH NOTE : first-order linear homogeneous differential equation.md

* PUSH NOTE : fiber.md

* PUSH NOTE : falsifiability.md

* PUSH NOTE : external vs internal iteration.md

* PUSH NOTE : exterior product.md

* PUSH NOTE : expression-oriented language.md

* PUSH NOTE : ecological correlation.md

* PUSH NOTE : desirable difficulty.md

* PUSH NOTE : descriptor indexing.md

* PUSH NOTE : descent methods.md

* PUSH NOTE : depression.md

* PUSH NOTE : dead code elimination.md

* PUSH NOTE : data science.md

* PUSH NOTE : convex and concave function.md

* PUSH NOTE : convergence of series.md

* PUSH NOTE : computing.md

* PUSH NOTE : cohesion and coupling.md

* PUSH NOTE : bivector.md

* PUSH NOTE : anti-procrastination techniques.md

* PUSH NOTE : absolute convergence of series.md

* PUSH NOTE : Quartz customization log.md

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : Screenshot from 2024-10-13 18-34-44.png

* PUSH ATTACHMENT : Pasted image 20241013190345.png

* PUSH NOTE : Fourier series.md

* PUSH NOTE : Doctest in Rust.md

* PUSH NOTE : CUDA global and constant memory.md

* PUSH NOTE : C++.md

* PUSH NOTE : C++ latches and barriers.md

content/Writings/index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - "#opinion"
created: 2024-02-06
modified: 2024-10-13
publish: true
tags:
  - opinion
title: Writings
---
This page contains some half-backed personal thoughts and other writing. If you prefer more structured writing, be sure to check out [my blog](https://lesleylai.info/) as well.

## My Reviews
- [[./website reviews|website reviews]]
- [[./software reviews|software reviews]]

## Programming
- [[./Avoid premature generalization|Avoid premature generalization]]
- [[./the suggestion 'think before you code' may not always lead to the best outcomes|the suggestion 'think before you code' may not always lead to the best outcomes]]
- [[don't make programming language, API, or tools part of your identity|don't make programming language, API, or tools part of your identity]]

### PL Design
- [[./On language features that encourages bad practices|On language features that "encourages bad practices"]]
- [[./On access control|On access control]]
- [[./on viral annotations|On Viral Annotations]]

## Life
- [[./focus on what kind of person you want to be rather than future achievement|focus on what kind of person you want to be rather than future achievement]]
- [[./debating is unproductive|debating is unproductive]]
- [[../Concepts/imposter syndrome|imposter syndrome]]

### Memes
- [[./On the IQ bell curve meme|On the IQ bell curve meme]]

## Philosophy and Ethics
- [[./On trolley problems and other sacrificial dilemmas|On trolley problems and other sacrificial dilemmas]]

## Inclusion
- [[./RTFM|On "RTFM"]]

## UI & UX
- [[./on brutalist and neobrutalist web design|on brutalist and neobrutalist web design]]
- [[./on estimated reading times|on estimated reading times]]

## Education
- [[../Fleeting/weeding courses are bad teaching|weeding courses are bad teaching]]

## Uncategorized
- [[./Eisenhower Matrix|Eisenhower Matrix]]
- [[../Concepts/how to design flashcards|how to design flashcards]]
- [[my bullshit radar|my bullshit radar]]
- [[On C++ STL|On C++ STL]]
- [[./on programming language complexity and bad features|on programming language complexity and bad features]]
- [[../Concepts/proof by assertion|proof by assertion]]
- [[./scapegoats and silver bullets|scapegoats and silver bullets]]
